INTRODUCTION 

Cucurbit powdery mildew (CPM) poses a significant threat to 
cucurbits (Squash and Pumpkin) globally, affecting them in both 
field and greenhouse environments(Caligiore-Gei et al., 2022). 
It is mainly caused by two erysiphaceous ectoparasites, namely 
Podosphaera xanthii and Erysiphe cichoracearum (Lebeda et al., 2015). 
The former pathogen has a worldwide distribution than the later 
pathogen (McGrath, 2022). The disease poses a significant production 
problem, leading to a decrease in the quantity and quality of yields, 
mainly through a decrease in the size or number of fruit or a 
shortened harvest period, premature senescence of infected leaves, 
sunburn on fruit, premature or incomplete ripening, and poor storability 
(e.g., winter squash), low soluble solids, resulting in poor flavor 
(e.g., melon), poor rind color (e.g., pumpkin) and shriveled, discolored 
handles (pumpkin), and makes plants more susceptible to other diseases, 
particularly gummy stem blight (McGrath, 2022).

Powdery Mildew characteristics consists of conspicuous whitish talcum‐like 
colonies of the pathogen on both sides of the leaves (image 1), petioles 
and vines (Pérez-García et al., 2009; Caligiore-Gei et al., 2022). The 
pathogens can not survive without a host, and under favorable conditions, 
Powdery Mildew develops fast and the time between infection and symptoms 
can be as short as three days, and spores are rapidly produced. Some reasons
that can make infection favorable are high density of plants, low amount of 
light during cucurbits cycle, high doses of nitrogen fertilizers and high 
humidity (University of Massachusetts Amherst, 2021).

Even though resistant varieties have been developed and improved worldwide 
to reduce the incidence of CPM disease, fungicides have remained the primary 
form of disease control (Del Pino et al., 2002). However, the use of these 
fungicides comes with ongoing challenges compassing prolonged exposure posing 
risks to human health, harm to non-target species (pollinators and natural 
predators), soil and water quality, pathogen resistance and also can be 
expensive, and their accessibility may be limited for some farmers 
(Cullen et al., 2019; Brauer et al., 2019; Ons et al., 2020).

In view of this challenges posed by overuse of fungicides and wanting a more
sustainable methods of CPM control and management, research is being 
conducted in University of New Hampshire to evaluate diiferent squash genotypes
for a possible resisitant gene against CPM. Therefore, the objective of this study 
seeks to contribute to the development of resilient crops that can withstand CPM, 
ultimately promoting sustainable agricultural practices through the identification 
of resistant squash varieties. 