METHODOLOGY

(A) Field screening

The field trial was carried out during the summer of 2023 at 
the Woodman Farm (43°08′58″N, 70°56′28.″W and Elevation 41.59 m) 
to test the resistance of 7 squash accessions (comprising 3 cultivars 
and 4 breeding lines ) (Table 1) to Cucurbit Powdery Mildew (CPM). 
The trial was designed in complete randomized blocks, with 3 replications, 
each replication consisting of 4 plants. Summer Squash were planted around 
the fields and innoculated with CPM before the test squash accessions were
planted. This summer squash severed as a source of inoculum of the 
causal agent of CPM. 

Table 1: 
Squash accession 	Type 	              Species 
C_LUN	           wild cultivar	   Cucurbita lundelliana
NH 148-15-6	   breeding line	   C. moschata
NH_204_PM	   breeding line 	   C. moschata
OSA	           wild cultivar	   C. okeechobeensis
PM_1	           breeding line 
               (NH 148-15-6 x NH_204_PM)   C. moschata
PM_2	           breeding line 
                  (OSA x WBN-1-88)	   C. moschata
WBN-1-88*	   domesticated 
                   cultivar 	           C. moschata

*Susceptible to Powdery mildew

(B) Disease assessment 
The assessment of resistance/tolerance/susceptible was made 60 days after 
planting when the disease was fully established in the filed.Each plant was 
carefully evaluated and rated for severity on the 4th and 5th leaves, 4th and 5th 
petioles, and vines (main stem) using the scale developed by Caligiore-Gei et al. (2022)
based on the percentage of leaf covered by powdery mildew colonies as follows:

Severity scale	Score	Description 
S0	          0	No visible sign/symptoms of the disease
0% < S1 <25%	  1	of leaf surface covered by conidia
25% ≤ S2 < 50	  2	of leaf surface covered by conidia
50% ≤ S3 < 75	  3	of leaf surface covered by conidia
S4 ≥ 75%	  4	of leaf surface covered by conidia, 
                        chlorotic due to pathogen or dead

The mean severity score were calculated for leaves (4th and 5th leaves), 
petiole (4th and 5th petioles) and vine for each squash accession. Based 
on the mean leave severity score, the squash accessions were categorized 
as resistance/tolerance/susceptible using the following scale:

Severity score	   Category
        0	   Resistant
      ≤ 1	   Tolerant
     ≤ 2-4	   Susceptible


(C) Data Analysis
For the analysis of the field screening data, we conducted our analyses using the programming software, R v 4.3.1 (2023.06.2 Build 561). The data obtained from the field trial, including severity scores for leaves, petioles, and vines of each squash accession, were subjected to a series of statistical analyses.

(i) Descriptive statistics, such as mean severity scores, standard deviation, and range, 
were calculated to provide a summary of the overall disease severity in the field trial.

(ii) Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) were performed to assess whether there are any significant 
differences in disease severity among the squash accessions. This helped identify if 
there are varieties that demonstrate statistically significant resistance or susceptibility.
Tukey's HSD were conducted to identify specific pairs of squash accessions that differ significantly in disease severity using the stats and TukeyC packeges.

(iii) Regression analyses (both linear model and generalized linear models) were conducted 
to explore potential relationships between severity scores on leaves, petioles, and 
vines using tidyverse and ggplot packages. This provided insights into whether the 
disease manifested similarly across different parts of the plant. 


